Let's look a little bit at some of the
other kinds of like let's build up like
what am I look like to to kind of get
towards using a button at this point.
So before this is the base button as we
just saw that we were playing around with,
I am gonna try to walk a fine line today,
where I do not make you slog through
every single utility class there is.
This is gonna be like,
we're gonna do some of the basics, and
then we're gonna do the greatest hits.
Or the ones that I found
particularly useful.
And some of the concepts, but like.
There's obviously in CSS.
There's some real esoteric ones too.
And we're gonna kind of like
leave some of those aside or
explore them as we go through.
So in our kind of live coding
explorations before you saw me kind of
add a background color.
Text is interesting because
it's nicely overloaded, right?
You'll see later that like, I can say
text white, as like white is the color.
Primary is a color if it's
in the color's theme, right?
It knows that.
And there's also like text extra small or
small and
it knows the difference between the two.
And so
you don't have to think about it as much.
And we saw before,
if I wanna add padding in every direction,
that can just be like
p4 if I wanna add px.
And there's a few little like
escape hatches in there as well.
There is for instance px,
which is just one pixel, right?
There's a few other ones as well,
hidden in there too.
So I can change it just for
those two different shapes because that
button's looking a little square for me.
Rounding the corners,
you just type rounded, right?
And if you just type random I think you'd
get rounded medium you can change what
the default rounding is, there is
everything from rounded small to rounded
extra large and then there's rounded full
which will do like some ridiculous number
like 9, 9, 9, 9, 9, 9, 9,
9 which is useful for getting circles.
Effectively, are pill shaped buttons.
In that case we can kind of play
around with that in a second.
You can add a border right,
you just say the border thickness.
Now, if you look very closely in
this there is a border, right but
you can barely see this
is a light gray border.
So the border you both have to
define that there is a border and
then you also say what
color the border is, right?
But you can kind of begin to like compose
all these things as you go you wanna add
a shadow grayed, out a shadow right and
you're not because I
don't know about y'all.
Who remembers the CSS syntax for
adding a shadow the first time every time?
Nope.
There's a few of those that, like,
every time I gotta look it up.
Except I don't anymore.
And the nice part is and
this is kind of the secret hack is.
So, for instance,
if I wanna say a button had a shadow.
I can say, if you look, I've got
a bunch of different shadows here.
I can say 2xl in this case.
And the nice part is there's
some CSS variables in here,
but at least part can see the CSS
is getting generated on my behalf.
And again, everything is customizable in
that theme for as much as you can go,
I hate that shadow.
So change the shadow and it'll all kind
of just work and it will be great.
And you know like I said before you've
got rounded you've also got like
various different forms of rounded that
you can like look at as well so you've got
kind of all of that in place there that
you can like build on top of, cool.
Awesome, so let's go back to the button.
So again, and the nice part is that
IntelliSense, if you have a VS Code,
is your friend.
A lot of times, like occasionally,
do I need to look at the docs?
I do.
The docs are pretty great too.
But a lot of times, I can actually just
use my editor to figure it all out,
and that's pretty wonderful in this case.
There's a little bit like we should
talk a little bit about sizing and
spacing that we saw before.
Here's just kind of an example that we can
kinda take a look at and see if we can
kind of like, gain some understanding
about what's going on here, right?
So here I've got a div with
a height of 72, at the MX-20,
that becomes 18 rem because
you're multiplying as well.
You can say it's got a width of 96, and
you can see what all
these measurements are.
Now, the really cool thing is,
there is that 1, 2,
4, 8, so on and so forth, right?
But let's say, Let's say you
need something to be 375 pixels.
What do you do?
>> Square bracket.
>> Square bracket it, right?
You don't actually if it's a one off if
you're gonna use 375 pixels of width all
over the place,
go put it in your theme, right?
Go give yourself an abstraction.
Let's say you need 375 pixels exactly
once and one time only, right?
All right, there is an escape hatch built
into tailwind here where you can say,
let's say 375 which I think is
probably not the best number here.
Let's go with it, right?
I can say 375 pixels in here, and
that will then like a class
will be generated on my behalf.
I don't have to go extend my
theme just for a one off and
have it littered with a lot of comments
like I had to do this because this thing.
In this situation,
you can just kind of do it.
That said, I will yell at you during
code review or I won't yell at you.
I will say really [LAUGH], or
something along those lines, but
there's always a situation where
you might need it as well.
You know, I usually,
if I get a design that has that in it,
I will round to the nearest
measurement that makes sense as well.
And that'll actually work for
almost anything, right?
So you could, for instance, say, okay,
the background should actually be.
Right?
And you can put a hex code in there or
like on the fly again, if it's a one-off.
So if you found yourself in react, for
instance, maybe trying to put style
attributes in a react,
JSX component, you now have a nicer,
cleaner way of doing that, and not having
to worry about all that stuff as well.
And again, these will like by definition,
if you've written it, it's in your file,
it's in your debase.
But if you remove it, then it will also
be like removed from the CSS bundle.
And on your behalf,
you don't have to think about it.
And like I said, you can like that
arbitrary values will work for
basically, And every single utility
class that we have in Tailwind.
So you're not in a pinch,
boxed in to anything at that moment.
You can kind of have an escape hatch and
go ahead and do what you need to do.
But I would say that if you find yourself
doing the same measurements over and
over and over again, you can extend
the theme or you can go ahead and
create any one of those components,
so on and so forth.
The other option, which we'll talk about
the very end of our time together is
you can also write plugins for Tailwind.
And really the nice part
about like the plugins don't.
You can do some very advanced stuff and
we'll show some of the built-in ones.
But the biggest use
case that we use it for
is we've got several different web
properties that we're maintaining.
So I can take all of our company's
branded typography, MPM install it.
I pop in that plugin.
And now I've got all of our typography,
right?
And I don't have to like copy and paste
that or even pull in a CSS file, and I get
all the autocomplete and everything's
hooked up into all the IntelliSense and
it's absolutely wonderful, right?
And it's like,
some of the tooling in terms of
the productivity is absolutely there.
Awesome.
So, yeah,
we've got the sign-in and spacing.
This is the table of what all
the different options are.
Because I know how to write JavaScript.
This is literally pulled
from the default theme.
I did not do this by hand.
So this is literally from Tailwind.
I've actually changed my
Tailwind theme right now.
Actually, I'm pulling from
the default theme from NPM.
This is the official set of
measurements that you can use,
nothing particularly notable, there is 0.
There is some of these factual units that
come up, there's one pixel if you need it.
You can see that it maxes out
at around 96 which is I believe,
at a normal zoom level is 386 pixels.
But if you wanted to add one number
up you just go to that theme,
you add it in there you got one number up.
You need something for some reason
like hey I'm porting like a legacy
code base and I need 46 real badly,
you can make 46, right?
You should try not to do anything insane.
And make sure that you're using
something reasonable so that, again,
everyone doesn't hate you.
But everything is tweakable,
everything is customizable.
Everything is wonderful,
everything is awesome.
The same is true for text sizing.
You'll see that text sizing
works a little bit differently.
We've got effectively I guess we
could call them t-shirt sizes.
I don't know that I've
ever seen a 9XL in person.
But I'm wet ready to believe it exists.
And the nice part about the text sizing
because again, this might just be my own.
Peculiarities leaking in here, which is
every time I start to write my own styles,
I take a lucky guess on what
the line space is going to be.
And it's just called trial and error,
until I don't wanna do
whatever I'm doing anymore.
And so not only do you get a font size,
you also get line spacing.
Use everything from letters.
Everything is customizable.
Everything from letter
spacing to line spacing, and
even in a one off case, there are ways
to kind of say, okay, no, but
I also want a looser, like line spacing,
something along those lines.
All of those are optional.
Our ability to just basically compose
those utility classes in a way that sees
fit and order of CSS classes matter.
But if you're using any of the tooling,
it will sort it in the right order for
the most sensible way
to go about doing this.
And all of that is there for you.
Cool, let's talk a little bit
about customizing colors.
We got to, by answering your question,
talk a little about customizing
colors a little earlier, but
like we can like kind of go all the way
through and begin to extend it.
So there's, an app I really like.
I've also done this in Figma, as I said,
but in case you're not familiar with
Figma, I'm not gonna force you to also
then download Figma and stuff like that.
There's UIcolors.app and
it does what it says on the theme, right?
It will go ahead and
generate a full range of colors for you,
and you can put together
a full palette in this case.
So, you can pick any color you
really want, I think we decided.
I go with this kind of purple
over here as my primary elect and
it gives you a name too which is great.
Electric Violet.
Great and I can export this and
you can see that I just
basically get everything I need.
If I need a different like you can
also get sass and stuff like that.
I can hit copy code and
I can pop it into my theme.
And we'll go ahead and
we'll just say theme, extend, colors.
And we'll pop in electric violet.
And now amazingly,
I can just go into my HTML here and
I'm gonna say BG, electric violet.
600, right?
And we've got it ready to go.
So I can now decide even
I'm stuck replacing some
of the colors that are in there.
I can blow away that entire color palette
and only stick with the colors I want.
That's what we do on our like marketing
site and stuff along those lines.
Or I can extend it with the colors ,and I
could make that the primary color as well
anything is fair game it's all doable,
it's great.